L1: INTRODUCTION
L2: PHP Variables
L3: Functions
L4: Built-in functions
L5: Arrays
L6: HTML Form Handling
L7: Conditionals and Logic
L8: Loops

L1
1.	CMS – Content Management Systems: allows users to create and update their own websites without having to write a lot of complex code themselves. Ex: wordpress, drupal, joomla.
2.	E-commerce: These e-commerce platforms offer a number of tools for selling products online. Ex: woocommerce, magento.
3.	Frameworks: Vanilla PHP, or PHP without any other tools, can be used on its own to create web application back-ends. These frameworks provide scaffolding and solutions to common problems in back-end web development. Ex: Laravel, cakephp, symphony.
How is PHP used in HTML?
PHP is often used to build dynamic web pages. A dynamic web page is one where each visitor to the website gets a customized page that van look different than how the site looks to another visitor. This is in contrast to static web pages which provide the same content to each visitor.
When the website is delivered from the back-end to the front-end, the PHP content is executed and added to the HTML document. 
PHP can also be executed from the terminal. We can use PHP as a general purpose programming language to write programs that give simple instructions to the computer without involving HTML or the web. When this is done, the output of the program is logged to the terminal. This is useful when testing functionality or for writing simple local programs. But while writing only the starting notation is required, leaving the end.
PHP is not always case sensitive (echo or Echo is used) and whitespace is generally ignored.
PHP comments: Sometimes, we want to include text in our files that we don’t want the computer to execute or display to the end user. We can do this with comments. Comments can be used to annotate our code to make it clearer to ourselves or others. They are also useful to prevent lines of code from being executed without deleting them. 
1.	# or // for single line comments.
2.	/*    */ for multi-line comments.
Example : 
When the visitor to the website, in this case you, modifies the task list, a request is made for a new web page, the PHP code runs again in the back-end and delivers a new version of the site with updated HTML. 
Todo list added... (complete or remove)

L2
The dollar sign is known as sigil; it’s a character that allows the computer to see quickly that something is a variable. 
While naming PHP variables with using an underscore between words on variable names with more than one word in their name. This is known as snake case:
8.9 + 1.1 will return 10, an integer, and not 10.0
** is the exponent operator (not * *)
Modulo operator: 7.9 % 3.8 will perform the same calculation as 7 % 3—both operations will return 1. 
Order of precedence: PEMDAS
Magic trick: 
$my_num = 5;
$answer = $my_num;
$answer+=2;
$answer*=2;
$answer-=2;
$answer/=2;
$answer-= $my_num;
echo $answer //prints one for any num

L3
Camel case – start with lowercase and capitalize the first letter of every new word. 
Function blablabla()
Invoking the function – blablabla();
-	We can define functions with parameters which are variables we can refer to throughout our function’s body.
-	When invoking functions, the values that we give them are called arguments.
-	Variables within functions have local scope and cannot be accessed from outside the function.
-	Use the global keyword to use variables from the global scope within a function.

L4
The abs() function returns the absolute value of its number argument.
The round() function which returns the nearest integer to its number argument.
abs ( mixed $number ) : number
Here we see the function name followed by parentheses. The parentheses contain information about the function’s parameter(s)—first the parameter’s type followed by its name. A function that prints something but doesn’t return a value will have :void instead of a return type. Similarly, a function that doesn’t accept parameters will have void within its parentheses. 

L6
PHP allowed a convenient way for developers to create HTML templates and programatically fill them out in order to send customized HTML to visitors of their sites. 
PHP has evolved into a powerful programming language being used for more than templating HTML, but using PHP combined with HTML remains an important part of many web developers’ skill sets. 
When navigating to a website from our web browser, the browser makes a request for content on our behalf. What we see and experience as a single website is actually composed of a number of files which come together to form a cohesive experience. 
The files we receive consist of JavaScript, CSS, HTML, images, and other static assets. A static asset is a file that doesn’t change. When we navigate to a webpage, these assets are sent to a browser. 
You may have heard front-end development referred to as client-side development. In web development, we are typically referring to the browser as the client. A human may be experiencing the website, but it’s the browser that makes requests for information and receives the responses. 
The front-end of a website or web application consists of all the elements of the website that are sent to the client upon request. But something has to be listening for those requests and deciding what to send — it’s the back-end of the website that does all that and more. 
The back-ends of websites will differ depending on the needs of the site. Typically, they’ll have at least the following components:
A web server: a web server is a computer or program which listens for requests from clients and sends back responses. This component is well suited to handling delivery of static content.
An application server: this is actually often a collection of programming logic which is needed to deliver dynamic content to a client. The application server will often handle other tasks such as site security and interacting with data. 
A data base: important information like usernames and passwords has to be stored and accessed somewhere. A large web application will often have multiple databases to store all different types of data needed to run the site smoothly.
PHP can be used in many capacities in the back-end. However, in this lesson, we’ll get started small by focussing on one small role the PHP application server can play in generating HTML which the web server will send to a client. 

L7
If the link has been clicked, then the web browser renders it in purple, rather than blue. The programming concept that makes this possible is called conditionals. 
